

# Xenowarden Mechs

The mechs that make up the backbone of Xenowarden planetary armor are a symbiotic union of multiple types of plants, trees, and lichens. With each mech grown to specification, arborists work carefully to graft multiple cultivars of native trees to a thin framework of supportive wire and light alloy framing. These saplings are nurtured and trained to an endoskeleton, and once a mech has matured, it can sustain its own energy needs with root systems and a verdant crown, possibly resulting in enormous mechs like the Xenowarden Canopy.  
All central control systems route to the cockpit ensconced somewhere within the flora. The mech’s functions might be controlled via algae pads, delicate fungal signaling systems, and precise nerve-like root structures coiling up into the cockpit.  
Smaller mechs, like the Xenowarden Seedling, are readied for service earlier in the growth cycle, which lets them retain a great deal more flexibility and bend in the donor flora materials. This early harvest creates mechs that best serve as forward scouts that can cover more ground but with a trade-off of the pilot having less protection. The pilot usually sits partially exposed in the crown of the main tree, using more traditional control surfaces to actuate the mech in combat.  
When a Xenowarden mech is knocked out during combat or otherwise abandoned, the root system takes permanent hold in the soil. The once powerful construct then takes on a second life as a flourish of new plant growth surrounds the fallen war machine.