---
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# CLASS ARCHETYPES
From the cunning operative to the deadly soldier, each core class in the Starfinder Roleplaying Game draws upon a central idea common to many characters found in science fantasy settings. However, there is a vast universe of interesting and useful character concepts beyond those easily represented by the existing classes. Players can emulate some of these concepts by choosing specific class features, selecting an appropriate theme (see page 28), or multiclassing (see page 26) to combine elements from more than one class. However, other concepts demand changes to a character’s focus that are beyond the scope of the standard classes and themes. To encompass these major differences, your character can take an archetype—a set of alternate class features that alters or replaces class features you would otherwise gain at specific levels.  
  
An archetype is a character concept more specific and involved than a theme, but not as comprehensive or broad as a class. Each archetype represents a significant divergence from the abilities of a typical member of the core classes. Archetypes provide an additional layer of control for players who want to fine-tune their character’s advancement.  
  
An archetype generally grants abilities that aren’t otherwise available to characters through a class, or it may grant easier access to a specific set of appropriate abilities. In general, these abilities aren’t tied to the background of any one core class or theme and aren’t available to characters via other sources. For example, the phrenic adept archetype (see page 128) could be used for a character who is naturally psychic or who gained psychic powers after being exposed to strange alien technology. Without a similar background or event, other characters can’t gain these powers, making it more appropriate for an archetype than a series of class features.