---
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# SKYFIRE LEGION MECHS
Taking cues from their traditional pairings, most Skyfire Legion mechs have been designed to have enough room for a ryphorian and a dragonkin ally. These mechs generally emulate dragons in both their appearance and functionality, unsurprising considering the mercenary group once took their name from the dragons they fought. The Skyfire Legion favors centaur-like quadrupedal mechs with a combination of destructive close-range weapons and elemental area weapons, such as thundergauntlets, flamethrowers, frostspears, and plasma swords. They value mechs with enough room in the cockpit or cargo hold that allows them to easily deploy their larger dragonkin allies for combat when necessary.  
The most common of the Legion’s mechs is the Skyfire Quickwing, a mobile and versatile combat machine capable of flight. Possessing reinforced armor plating and light shielding, Quickwings are typically deployed in squadrons of four to six for short range reconnaissance and skirmishing. Some pilots outfit their Quickwings with more powerful energy cores and lighter weaponry, using them as mid-range scouting units that make up what they lack in stealth with flight and ferocity.  
The Skyfire Legion doesn’t limit themselves to short-range skirmishers. The Skyfire Wyrm is a powerful combat juggernaut designed to look like a true dragon, with a powerful quadrupedal chassis equipped with flight and destructive claws designed to shear through armored plating; it has powerful weaponry integrated into the main chassis—typically missile batteries, rocket launchers, or sonic shotguns. “Release the hatchlings” is common Legion jargon for opening the hatch on a Wyrm to release dragonkin-ryphorian pairs who can provide tactical support while the Wyrm handles airborne combatants.