---
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# VINDICAS SHIPS
Vindicas has manufactured starships for the Veskarium since the vesk first gained Drift technology. Their facilities constantly produce Enforcers, Punishers, and Tyrants, which form the backbone of Veskarium military might. The designs focus on thick armor and overwhelming firepower while completely neglecting basic comforts and updated technology. Vesk generals claim that the utilitarian designs keep troops focused and disciplined in the dead of space.  
The Vindicas Punisher is designed for both pursuit and capture of valuable assets, both prisoners and resources. It carries a squad of vesk commandos, ready to board enemy vessels and extract their targets. Its larger sibling, the Vindicas Enforcer, also houses a squad of commandos, ready for deployment in semipermanent occupations of conquered colonies and space stations.  
The most well-known Vindicas vessel is the Conqueror of Worlds. This masterpiece of destruction is the flagship of the Veskarium, and the last thing many science officers see on their sensors, just before facing Pharasma. When the Veskarium has decided to bring a planet under its control and that planet resists, it brings in this massive weapon to lay waste to any defenses the planet can muster. The ship can hold its targets in place with a tractor beam while its spinal-mounted ultra x-laser cannon warms up; then the cannon can rip an entire line of starships to shreds. When engaging opposing fleets, the ship rarely needs to fire the weapon twice before the target acquiesces to virtually any demand the Veskarium makes.