

# Kasathan Starships

Nearly all new kasathan-style ships found in the Pact Worlds are manufactured by the government of the _Idari_, produced in the ship’s massive state-run engineering bays called the Crucibles. Those few kasathan ships old enough to have arrived in the system alongside the _Idari_—perhaps even having been manufactured on Kasath itself—are either worthless or priceless: pitted and rusting hulks just barely holding together, or marvels of custom engineering reserved for the Doyenate and their top emissaries and warriors.  
  
Kasathan ships are generally artistic and graceful, with smooth, ornate designs perfected long ago and only reluctantly modified to incorporate technological advances. While kasathan ships are in some ways similar to designs originating in the Pact Worlds, with their smaller vessels echoing the predatory spearheads of atmospheric combat, other aspects of their design befuddle human pilots. Consider, for instance, the classic Idaran Trigrammaton heavy fighter, feared for both its speed and the number of armaments it can bring to bear on anyone entering the vicinity of the _Idari_ without permission. Unlike most fighters, which carry a single pilot, or at most a pilot and a gunner, Trigrammatons require three crew members who share roles in perfect synchronization, giving them an unparalleled awareness of their surroundings and the enemy and allowing them to pull off maneuvers that leave solo pilots shaking in their flight suits. While not all kasathan ships are this unique, even their most basic freighters often look stately and regal, generally incorporating a number of secondary pod-hulls or outriggers. Kasathan ships can also often be recognized by the golden sheen of their canopies and viewports. This is the result of a proprietary acrylic-like material called esaris, which is capable of shielding pilots from blinding light or radiation and incorporating incredibly detailed active displays while preserving perfect clarity. Though other manufacturers have attempted for years to buy, retroengineer, or steal the formula, so far they have all failed, with rumors circulating that the material has some greater significance known only to the Doyenate, possibly related to the Outer Planes.  
  
Another feature that sets kasathan ships apart is their modularity. Unlike normal ships, some kasathan ships use magnetic field locks instead of conventional welds, allowing them to bind parts together without them actually touching, or even rearrange sections into new configurations on the fly. Few sights can compare to the eerie beauty of an Idaran Saga-class warship spreading its wings in preparation for battle, and these locks also allow some of the largest ships to break apart into smaller, individually self-sufficient units when necessary, either to abandon damaged modules or to better surround and entrap an enemy.