---
aliases: 
tags: 
---
# DESIGNING MECH ENCOUNTERS

**Source** _Tech Revolution pg. 92_  
Mech combat uses the same rules and functions on the same scale as most other Starfinder combats, such as using square-grid maps, means of resolving attacks, and more. As a result, designing encounters involving mechs is not substantially different from designing any other combat encounter. The following are some things to consider when designing encounters for mechs.  
**CR:** PCs that are operating mechs appropriate for their level have an Average Party Level 3 levels higher than normal, and therefore are able to overcome stronger threats as a result; consider the following when designing encounters for mechs: First, mechs with multiple operators are typically highly maneuverable, capable of both moving and attacking skillfully. As such, slow-moving foes with limited ranged options are less threatening for PCs operating mechs that can often run circles around them. When presenting a small number of foes, consider favoring maneuverable or long-range combatants, or consider providing terrain or objectives that encourage the PCs to engage the enemy at close range.  
Second, many mech weapons excel at attacking multiple targets at once, so mechs excel at fending off large numbers of lesser foes. Enemies whose CR are lower than the mech’s tier rarely pose a threat to the mech, unless they’re in large groups. However, using only a few mechs to defeat a small army (or a large foe with numerous minions) can be extremely gratifying.  
**Experience:** Even though the PCs can overcome much more powerful threats than usual in a mech, mech encounters should provide a similar amount of experience to encounters appropriate for the PCs’ APL. Combat encounters the PCs overcome while using mechs typically grant experience points as though the CR of each challenge were 3 lower than usual. Do not reduce the experience points earned from challenges that aren’t substantially affected by the PCs’ access to mechs, such as story awards for performing heists or overcoming encounters without mech combat.  
**Space:** Mechs are big. Huge mechs may be able to navigate conventional adventure spaces, but Gargantuan and Colossal mechs require a larger area to maneuver and fight effectively. When creating mech encounters, aim to provide each mech at least four times as much area to maneuver in than the mech occupies, and make sure any paths, halls, or other passageways are large enough to accommodate all of the combatants. Alternatively, if the goal is to create an encounter where the mech is forced to struggle to maneuver or engage foes due to restrictive terrain, consider treating the encounter’s Challenge Rating as at least 1 lower. An encounter in which the PCs fight an immense foe by exploiting claustrophobic terrain can offer fun tactical challenges!  
**NPC Mechs:** Nonplayer character mechs are built using a different set of guidelines to provide a balanced encounter for player characters. See page 109 for advice on building NPC mechs.  

# BUILDING NPC MECHS

**Source** _Tech Revolution pg. 109_  
As a GM, you can create mech combatants to challenge the PCs using the rules in the Building a Mech section on page 97. When doing so, calculate a mech’s challenge rating by adding 2 to its CR if it has one operator, 3 to the CR if it has 2–3 operators, and 4 to the CR if it has 4 or more operators. Assume an operator’s Piloting ranks equal the mech’s tier. Be aware that mechs designed in this way have statistics best suited for PCs, and as a result, such mechs have fewer Hit Points, stronger defenses, lower attack bonuses, and slightly lower damage per attack than a creature of comparable CR.  
As a recommended alternative, use the following rules to create NPC mechs that are both quicker to design and better designed for use as antagonists. These rules borrow many of the modifiers, values, and design recommendations from Appendix 1 of Starfinder Alien Archive, especially the Everything Is Optional sidebar on page 127. If you want a mech that feels faster, hardier, or deadlier, increase the appropriate statistics, and consider reducing a few other statistics to compensate.  
**Challenge Rating:** Select the mech’s CR. Remember that PCs in their own mechs are much stronger, and an enemy mech’s CR must be approximately 3 higher than normal to provide an equivalent challenge.  
**Operators:** Because a mech’s number of actions depends on its number of operators, an NPC mech’s statistics depend on its number of operators; a larger number of operators results in the mech having lower bonuses to compensate. Use the instructions below for a mech with 1 operator. For a mech with 2–3 operators, treat the mech’s CR as 2 lower for the purpose of calculating its attack bonuses. For a mech with 4–6 operators, treat the mech’s CR as 3 lower for the purpose of calculating its attack bonuses.  
**Statistics:** Follow the instructions for building a creature, using the EAC, KAC, saving throw bonuses, attack bonuses, and ability DCs for a creature of the chosen CR. Use the skill bonuses for a creature whose CR is 3 lower than the mech’s CR. NPC mechs use the combatant array (Alien Archive 129–130).  
**Hit Points and Shield Points:** Use the listed number of Hit Points for a creature whose CR is 2 lower than your mech’s CR. Give the mech a number of Shield Points equal to one-fifth the mech’s Hit Point total. Each turn, the mech regains a number of missing Shield Points equal to its CR.  
**Weapons and Damage:** Rather than use the damage listed in the combatant array, give the mech several mech weapons (pages 102-106) whose levels are each 3 lower than the mech’s CR (minimum 1). A typical mech should have weapons whose combined Mech Point cost per level is approximately 9, providing it with about three weapons. Use the weapons’ level and type to determine their base damage dice, per Table 4–5: Weapon Damage on page 104. For ranged weapons, add the mech’s CR – 3 (minimum 0) as a damage modifier. For melee weapons, add an additional damage modifier of 5, representing the mech’s extraordinary strength.  
**Hardness:** The mech has a hardness value equal to half its CR, rounded down.  
**Speed:** A typical mech has a speed of 40 feet. Optionally, increase the mech’s speed by up to 40 feet, give the mech a fly speed of 60 feet (average), or a swim speed of 60 feet.  
**Power Points:** A typical mech begins an encounter with 3 Power Points (page 113), regains 1 PP per turn, and can store a maximum of 5 PP.  
**Auxiliary Systems:** The mech can select up to 4 auxiliary systems. Depending on the role the mech plays in the encounter, it might not need all of these systems. In general, limit the mech to one auxiliary system that’s restricted to a particular mech frame, such as a cloaker or teleporter.